It is estimated that nearly 15% of the total population of India consists of students. The students, therefore, constitute a great potential force capable of leading a nation to great heights of progress or abyss of decadence. No wonder every nation spends crores of rupees for their education and proper development. The future of every nation depends on their students.


The primary duty of a student is to learn and acquire knowledge. Their main duty consists of improving their intellect and widening their mental capabilities. Unfortunately, many students forget this goal and spend their school days uselessly enjoying and idling away their time. Only later they realise the result of their folly.

But then it is too late. School is the platform wherein students learn the good traits of life such as, discipline, obedience, dutifulness, diligence, respect to elders, honesty, patriotism, etc. School provides numerous opportunities for the development of these qualities. It is the duty of every student to acquire these fine qualities of life which will enable him/ her to stand in good stead in the future.

Another important duty of the students is to prepare them for the career they want to pursue. It is in school life that the future career takes roots. During school life, one becomes aware of one’s abilities, limitations and the different professions available. Therefore, during this stage they should make up their mind as to what they should become in life. School life is the right time to make proper choice of one’s career.

Students are the guardians of society. It is their duty to fight against all evils existing in the society. They have tremendous responsibility to see that injustice, inequality, oppression, exploitation, corruption, criminalisation of politics, communalism, casteism, misuse of public money, etc., are done away with. Students have great strength to oppose these evils of society.

Students also have a great responsibility to help out the less fortunate members of the society by way of social work. They can offer great services by teaching illiterate children of nearby villages, building houses for the poor people of the locality, undertaking cleaning drives, creating public awareness on various social issues, etc.

Students can also render valuable services to the nation at the time of calamities such as, earthquakes, floods, severe drought and accidents. Students ought to take leadership in organising quick rescue work. In fact, student organisations such as, N.C.C. and scout troops have rendered praiseworthy services to the nations at the time of national emergencies in the past and I am sure they will continue to do so in the years to come.

Thus, students can render valuable services to the cause of the nation. They can play a vital role in wiping out the various ills which throttle national progress and development and thereby set the nation on its rail. They are the true assets of a nation. It all depends on how we trim and tune these God-given resources to the benefit of the nation.
