Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala’s budget presented on Friday by state finance minister K.M. Mani focused on welfare measures and seeks to make a beggar-free state.

Mani’s budget presentation was disrupted by the members of the Opposition Left Democratic Front over remarks made by P.C. George against Janadhipatya Samrakshana Samithi leader K.R. Gowri, and the late Communist Party of India leader T.V. Thomas.

The opposition members also raised objection to the finance minister’s long budget speech which lasted for over two-and-a-half hours.

Mani made provison of Rs1 billion (Dh67.9 million) for the ailing Kerala State Road Transport Corporation. The corporation had dealt a blow due to rise in prices.

The finance minister also raised the farm workers’ pension to Rs500 per month, and widow pension to Rs700 per month.

He also raised pension for residents of old age homes and orphanages, and also for those below-poverty-line families having to undergo regular dialysis.

In a move to make Kerala a beggar-free state, Mani has proposed setting up shelters to accommodate beggars and homeless in special homes to be set up with the government. He also urged to put an end to begging by children, and has proposed strong actions against those aiding the crime.

He also proposed setting up rehabilitation centres in all districts in the state to deal with alcohol consumption, and has set aside Rs500 million towards initial contribution for a new dam at Mullaperiyar in place of the existing one.

In a goodwill gesture towards farmers, the finance minister has proposed to write off the interest component on farm loans that are less that Rs100,000.

Mani, while presenting the budget left out a paragraph from his speech that mentioned raising the retirement age to 60 for all state government employees who join service from the next fiscal.

“The retirement age of existing state government employees will not be changed, taking into consideration the demand of the youths. But all those who join service from April 1st, 2013, since they are going to be part of the national pension policy, it has been decided to increase the pension age of such employees to 60 [years]. This decision is not going to affect the youth in any way, but will only be beneficial to them,” says paragraph 413 of the budget speech, which Mani did not read.
