 The Congress-led UDF Government in Kerala on Friday presented its Budget for fiscal 2013-14 with a slew of populist proposals but without many proposals for development in the crucial sectors including infrastructure or for bringing down the rising prices of essential commodities.

The focus of the Budget, presented by Finance Minister Mani of the Kerala Congress (M), third biggest constituent of the ruling coalition, was on agriculture, social security and welfare sectors prompting analysts to describe it as a budget with an eye on the Lok Sabha election to be held within a year.

With indirect proposals aimed at netting over Rs1,000 crore in the next twelve months, Mani’s eleventh Budget expects an additional expenditure of over Rs1,400 crore. The Budget expects the capital expenditure to be Rs8,613 crore, actual revenue surplus as Rs1,202.09 crore, and the revenue deficit is projected as Rs2,269.97 crore.

Mani expects the revenue income to stand at Rs58,057.88 crore and the expenditure to be at Rs60,327.85 crore. The document said that there was an increase of 20.53 percent in the revenue income while the revenue expenditure went up by 17.8 percent. The economic review of fiscal 2011-12 published the other day had put the State’s growth rate at 9.5 percent.

Though there were virtually no proposals for controlling the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities, Mani, heading a party that exists on the support of small and medium cash crop farmers, earmarked Rs50 crore for writing off interests on loans availed by farmers and additional Rs30 crore for disbursing zero-interest loans to them through the cooperative sector.

Mani also came out with a risk insurance scheme on farm loans guaranteeing that the loan need not be repaid in the event of the death of the farmer. However, criticisms arose to the effect that no allocations had been made specifically for increasing the production of rice, the staple food of Keralites, when only 20 percent of the required rice was being produced domestically.

Stating that prices of essentials would not be affected by changes in tax on items specified in the Budget, the Minister proposed to hike tax on vehicles and several other items from the present 13.5 percent to 14.5 percent. He had last year hiked this from 12.5 percent to 13.5 percent. Mani said the step would bring tax structure in Kerala on par with that in other southern states. The Minister also proposed to hike the tax on India-Made Foreign Liquor - except beer and wine - by five percent, expecting to mobilize additional revenue of Rs250 crore in a State which has the highest per-capita booze consumption in India.
